This folder contains the Arduino code for the turbidostatic growth control within the openPBR.Code has been tested in a Arduino MEGA2560 board.

BEFORE USING THE CODE DO NOT FORGET TO INSTALL THE REQUIRED LIBRARIES FOR ITS EXECUTION.

1. Open your Arduino IDE and go to Sketch > Include Library > Manage Libraries. The Library Manager should open.

2. Type “OneWire” in the search box and install the OneWire library by Paul Stoffregen. 

3. Also search for “Dallas” and install the Dallas Temperature library by Miles Burton.

IN ORDER TO USE THE CODE FOR AN ACCURATE CONTROL OF THE GROWTH IT IS NECESSARY TO CALIBRATE YOUR SYSTEM.

CALIBRATION.

Due to the unique disposition of the Infrared LEDs and the Opt101 sensors each homemade openPBR will feature an slightly different response. Then a calibration is mandatory.

We highly recommend to use a red colorant with an absorbance spectra peak between 600 to 800 nm. Also concentrated cyanobacterial / microalgae culture can be used, 
however the system should be carefully cleaned afterwards.

The Arduino will register the changes in the incident light over Opt101 as a difference in measured potential (mV) at the analog input.  

In this folder you can also found another two scripts. 

OD_Sensors_Calibration.ino -> Is the code we used for calibrating the device. FIrst of All, Serial Monitor of Arduino is open in order to register the measures.
Initially the chamber is filled with a concentrated solution of colorante / culture,
then 5 independent OD measurements are performed. After that, the solution is pumped out of the chamber and water is filled by the admission pump. 
This way, in the discharge pump exit aliquots of the just measured colored solution can be taken and stored for further OD measurement in a calibrated spectrophotometer.

OD_data_reader.py -> Is a python script that takes as input a file named as "log_OD.txt". This file has to be created after the OD calibration. 
This file consists in the Serial print of the arduino which has to be fully copied without any modification to a plain .txt file and saved as "log_OD.txt".

After executing the python script, a new file called "OD_log.csv" will be created, featuring all the registered OD data as a .csv file that can be easily opened and processed
with excel or similar software. 

The used correlation for OD calibration is an exponential response curve, following the formula -> OD = A*ln[OD_measure(mv)] + B  , where "A" & "B" are parameters
to adjust and will be different for OD680 and OD720. In our main code we have only used the OD680 calibration, however both ODs can be measured simultaneously.



