In this folder you can found a python Script for Neutral SItes identification within almost any prokaryote genome. -> "NS_Identifier_FINAL.py"

This Script take as INPUTS 2 different FILES:

1st A file containing the whole genome of the organism in FASTA format. As an example two full genoem sequences are provided in the files "PCC_11801.fna" and "PCC_11901.fna"

2nd A file containing the Identified Open Reading Frames in the genome. As an example two files with the identified ORF are provided: "CDS_PCC11801.txt" and "PCC11901.txt". 
Despite a python script has been developed for easy ORF identification, the vast majority of genomes are already annotated with better quality than the ORF that our script is 
able to identify. Then we encourage you to directñy download the ORF information from NCBI or similar databases. In case they are not available use a dedicated software for 
open reading frames identification. 

CUSTOMIZING THE SEARCH.

Several parameters in the script are setup by default. In the uploaded version the script looks for potential neutral sites that

LENGTH CUTOFF: The "neutral" DNA region betweenn convergent genes is longer than 200 bp  -> Can be tuned changing the line 218 
        NS_min_len = 200 (replace 200 by your desired length in bp)

HOMOLOGY ARMS: The span of adjacent DNA sequences used as homology arms for double recombination within the neutral site can be also adjusted in line 219
        site_span = 1800  (1800 bp is the length established as default for the "full" neutral site, considering <900 bp upstream the start of NS and <900bp  after the end.

SITES TO AVOID: If certain sequence (usually restriction sites) must be avoided,  the dictionary defined in line 212 "avoid_dict" can be updated with the desired entries for
those sites that needs to be avoided. By default, the following elements are included:

avoid_dict['BsmBI']=Seq('CGTCTC')
avoid_dict['BsaI']=Seq('GGTCTC')
avoid_dict['NotI']=Seq('GCGGCCGC')
avoid_dict['SapI']=Seq('GAAGAGC')

However, you can customize the sites that you would like to avoid in your Neutral Sites.

RESULTS.

The Script will search potential "neutral" DNA region betweenn convergent genes. After its identification it will look the pressence or absence of undesired restriction sites
and display the adjacent DNA regions in order to use the identified DNA region as a Neutral site for integration.

After its execution, the script will create a "Results" folder, with a file called "Convergent_NS_Results.txt" inside. Within this file all the identified Convergent Neutral Sites 
are presented. 

- Length, Start and end Position of all identified Neutral Sites longer than the "cutoff" are presented

- If the specified restriction sites are found in the site or adjacent sequence, the adjacent DNA regions WON't be calculated and a message like:

"Not Shown. There Exists Restriction Sites In Adajacent Gene Regions" Will appear.

- If there are no restriction sites within the identified neutral site, the adjacent DNA sequences will be computed and shown below the neutral site.

*CAPS will be used to HIGHLIGHT the convergent DNA region in the middle of the neutral site span.


!!!!! IMPORTANT !!!!!

The identified Neutral Sites actually corresponds with a non-coding DNA region found between two convergent genes. Usually this region corresponds with nc-DNA or the
terminators of the adjacent ORF. However, some times another important genes can be found in this sites (scRNA, tRNA etc...). Because of that we recommend you to:

- Integrate your constructs flanked by bidirectional terminators in order to avoid potential cross-talking with the surrounding genetic context.

- Manually revise the identified neutral sites in order to make sure that there are essential genes within the neutral site.

- Limit the span of neutral sites to 50-200 bp in order to avoid long DNA sequences that can actually pose an essential biological role.


